⭐ Practice Set 1 — Technique-by-Technique Tasks

Each question asks the student to create a prompt using a specific expert prompt pattern.

1. ReAct Prompting

Create a ReAct-style prompt to solve this problem:
A shopkeeper buys 50 chocolates and sells 17. How many are left?

Your prompt must include:

Thought

Action

Observation

Final Answer

2. Tree-of-Thought Prompting

Create a ToT prompt that forces the AI to generate 3 different approaches to plan a 1-month DSA study schedule and then select the best one.

3. Graph Prompting

Write a prompt asking AI to explain how an LSTM works using a graph structure:

Nodes = components

Edges = relationships

Final answer = graph-based explanation

4. Auto-Prompting

Write a prompt that tells AI to first create the best possible prompt to explain “Neural Style Transfer,” and then answer using that generated prompt.

5. Wizard-of-Thought Prompting

Write a prompt that makes the AI explain time complexity analysis as if it is a wizard teaching a beginner, using step-by-step hints.

6. Scratchpad Prompting

Create a prompt where the AI must solve:
“What is 489 × 27?”
using a scratchpad to show all intermediate steps before giving the final answer.

7. Schema-Driven Prompt

Provide a JSON schema for explaining “Decision Trees”:

{
  "definition": "",
  "components": [],
  "example": "",
  "advantages": [],
  "disadvantages": []
}


Ask the AI to fill this schema strictly without extra text.

8. Meta Prompting

Create a meta prompt that instructs the AI to:

Think step-by-step

Avoid assumptions

Use factual information

Format answer in clear bullet points

Use the topic: “Explain overfitting in machine learning.”

9. Reflexion Prompting

Create a prompt where the AI must:

Give an answer about “Regularization techniques.”

Review its own answer and identify mistakes.

Produce an improved answer.

10. Deliberate Prompting

Create a prompt that forces the AI to “think carefully” about:
“How to choose the best machine learning algorithm for a dataset.”
The AI must list considerations → analyze them → then give a final recommendation.